you now know about these stochastic
gradient descent algorithm but when
you're running the algorithm how do you
make sure that is sort of completely
debug than this conversion okay and
equally important how do you tune the
learning rate alpha was the costly
gradient descent in this video we'll
talk about some techniques for doing
these things for making sure it's
converging and for picking the learning
rate alpha back when we were using batch
gradient descent
I'll stand away from making sure that
gradient descent was converging was we
would plot the optimization cost
function as a function of the number of
iterations so that was the cost function
and we would make sure that this cost
function is decreasing on every
iteration when the training set size was
small we could do that because we could
compute this sum pretty efficiently that
when you have a massive training set
size then you don't want to have to
pause your algorithm periodically you
don't want to have the paused stochastic
gradient descent periodically in order
to compute this cost function since it
requires a sum over your entire training
set size and the whole point of
stochastic gradient descent was that you
wanted to start to make progress after
looking at just a single example what
about needing to occasionally scan
through your entire training set right
in the middle of the algorithm just to
compute things like the cost function
over your entire training set so first
oh constant gradient descent in order to
check that the Abril is converging
here's what we can do instead let's take
the definition of the cost that we have
previously so the cost of the parameters
theta with respect to a single training
example is just 1/2 of the squared error
on that tree
then while stochastic gradient descent
is learning right before we train on a
specific example so in Stoke African
descent we're going to look at the
examples X I Y I in order and then sort
of take a little update with respect to
this example and then go on to the next
example
X I plus 1 y I plus 1 and so on right
that's what's the cost appear descent
does so while the algorithm is looking
at the example X I Y I but before it has
updated the parameters data using that
example let's compute the cost of that
example just to say the same thing again
by using slightly different words as
stochastic gradient descent is scanning
through our training set right before we
have updated theta using a particular
training example X I comma Y I let's
compute how well our hypothesis is doing
on that training example yeah and we
want to do this before updating theta
because if we've just updated theta
using that training example you know
then it might be doing better on that
example then would be representative
finally in order to check for the
convergence of stochastic gradient
descent what we can do is every say
every thousand innovations we can plot
these costs that we've been computing
and previous step we can plot those
costs average over say the last thousand
examples processed by the algorithm and
if you do this it kind of gives you a
running estimate of how well the
algorithm is doing on you know the last
1,000 training examples that your
algorithm has seen so in contrast to
computing g-train periodically which
needed to scan through the entire
training set with this order procedure
well as part of stochastic gradient
descent it doesn't cost much to compute
these costs as well right before
updating to parameter theta and all
we're doing is every thousand iterations
or so we just average the last 1,000
cost that we computed and we plot that
and by looking at those plots this will
allow us to
if stochastic great into census
conversion so here are a few examples of
what these plots might look like suppose
we were to plot the cost average over
the last thousand examples because these
are average over just a thousand
examples they are going to be a little
bit noisy and so it may not decrease on
every single iteration but if you get a
figure that looks like this so the plot
is noisy because this average over
you're just a small subset say a
thousand training examples you can think
of that looks like this you know that
would be a pretty decent run with the
algorithm maybe where it looks like the
cost has gone down and then this plateau
that was kind of flattened now you're
starting from around that point so it
looks like that there's no way your cost
looks like then maybe your learning
algorithm has converged if you were to
try using a smaller learning rate
something that you might see it is that
the opera may initially learn more
slowly so the cost goes down more slowly
but then eventually you have a smaller
learning rate there's actually possible
for the algorithm to end up at a maybe a
very slightly better solution so the red
line may represent the behavior of
stochastic we understand using a slower
using a smaller learning rate and the
reason this is the case is because you
remember stochastic gradient descent
doesn't just converge the global minimum
is that what it does is the parameters
will oscillate a bit around the global
minimum and so by using a smaller
learning rate you end up with smaller
oscillations and sometimes this little
difference will be negligible and
sometimes with a smaller learning ready
can get a slightly better value for the
parameters here are some other things
that might happen let's say he runs the
Kospi in descent and you average over a
thousand examples when when plotting
these costs so you know here it might be
a result of another one of these plots
and again the trial looks like this
converge
if you were to take this number 8,000
and increase it to averaging over 5,000
examples then it's possible that you
might get a smoother curve that looks
more like this and by averaging over say
5,000 examples instead of 1,000 you
might be really get a smoother curve
like this and so that's the effect of
increasing the number of examples your
average over the disadvantage of making
this too big of course is that now you
get one day to point only every 5,000
examples and so the feedback you get on
how well your learning outcome is doing
is sort of maybe it's more delay because
you get one data point on your plot or
the every 5,000 examples rather than
early 1001 was similar vein sometimes
you may run stochastic great descent and
end up with a plot that looks like this
and with a plot that looks like this you
know it looks like the cost just is not
the appeasing at all it looks like the
algorithm is just not learning well it
just looks like bithia flat curve and
it's just the cost is just not
decreasing but again if you were to
increase this to averaging over a larger
number of examples it's possible that
you see something like this red line it
looks like the cost actually is
decreasing it's just that the blue line
averaging over two three examples the
blue line was too noisy so you couldn't
see the actual trend in the cost
actually decreasing and possibly
averaging over 5,000 examples and said
1,000 may help of course when you
average over a larger number of examples
which was average here over 5,000
examples to just use a different color
it's also possible that you see that the
learning curve ends up looking like this
there's still fact even when you're
averaging over a larger number of
examples and if you get that then that's
maybe just a more firm verification that
unfortunately the outer just isn't very
much for whatever reason
and you need to either change the
learning rate or change the features or
change something else about the
algorithm finally one last thing that
you might see would be if you were to
plot these curves and you see a curve
that looks like this where it actually
looks like this increasing and if that's
the case then this is a sign that the
algorithm is diverging and what you
really should do is use a smaller value
of the learning rate alpha so hopefully
this gives you a sense of the range of
phenomena you might see when you plot
these cost average over some range of
examples as well as suggest the sorts of
things you might try to do in response
to seeing different plots I serve the
plot looks too noisy of it so it goes up
and down too much then try increasing
the number of examples you're averaging
over so you can see the overall trend in
the plot better and if you see that the
errors are actually increasing the costs
are actually increasing try using a
smaller value of alpha finally it's
worth examining the issue of the
learning rate just a little bit more we
saw that when you run stochastic green
descent the algorithm will start here
and sort of meander towards the minimum
and then it won't really converge but
instead a wonder around the minimum
forever and so you end up with a
parameter value that is hopefully close
to the global minimum that won't be
exactly at the global minimum in most
typical implementations of stochastic
gradient descent the learning rate alpha
is typically held constant and so what
you typically ends up with is exactly
the picture like this if you want
stochastic Granderson to actually
converge to the global minimum there's
one thing which you can do which is you
can slowly decrease the learning rate
alpha over time so a pretty typical way
of doing that would be to set alpha
equals some constant 1 divided by
iteration number plus constant 2 so
aeration number is the number of
iterations you've run of Circosta
quintessence is really the number of
training examples you've seen and cons 1
and cos 2 are additional parameters of
the
then you might have to play with a bit
in order to get good performance one of
the reason is people tend not to do this
is because you end up needing to spend
time playing with these two extra
parameters cause when it comes to and so
this makes the average more finicky it
was just more parameters easy to fiddle
with in order to meet the other work
well but if you manage to tune the
parameters well then the picture you can
get is that the algorithm will actually
meander around towards the minimum but
as it gets closer because you're
decreasing the learning rate the
meanderings would get smaller and
smaller until it pretty much just
converges to the global minimum I hope
this makes sense right and the reason
this formula makes sense is because as
the album runs the iteration number
becomes large and so alpha will slowly
become small and so you take smaller and
smaller steps until it some of you know
hopefully converges to the global
minimum so if you do slowly decrease
alpha to zero you can end up with a
slightly better hypothesis but because
of the extra work needed to fit of the
constants and because frankly usually
were pretty happy with any parameter
value that's you know pretty close to
global minimum typically this process of
decreasing alpha slowly is usually not
done and keeping the learning rate alpha
constant is the more common application
mr. Casas Grandes and although you will
see people using either version
to summarize in this video we talked
about a way for approximately monitoring
how stochastic gradient descent is doing
in terms of optimizing the cost function
and this is a method that does not
require scanning over the entire
training set periodically to compute the
cost function on the entire training set
but instead it looks at I'd say only the
last thousand examples or so and you can
use this method both to make sure that
stochastic gradient descent is really
okay and is converging or to use it to
tune the learning rate alpha